PlayerStats:

Accuracy
Speed
Strength
Discrete
Persuasive
Defense
Toughness
PainThreshold


Abillities:

BackStab(Passive):

If novice is equipped and stealth attack boolean equals true, player deals additional 1-6 damage to target enemy.
If adept, same as novice with a bleeding effect on enemy that deals 1-4 damage 
every 10 in game seconds until enemy is healed or dies.
If master, same as adept with new damage on bleeding to 1-8 damage.

Berserker:

If novice is equipped and player has toggled isOn to true, equipped weapons gain additional 1-6 damage, defence lowered by 2.
If adept, same as novice with player now taking 1-4 less damage from enemy attacks while activated.
If master, same as adept with player now taking no penalty for defence.

Dominate(Passive):

If novice is equipped, half of players persuasive stat is added to their accuracy check.
If adept, same as novice with a chance to do 1-4 damage to another enemy within player range on successfull player attacks.
If master, same as adept with the ability to effect enemies within player range
with fear and causes them to flee for 25 in game seconds.

Exceptional Attribute:

On collection,if novice, player looks through and chooses one of the options in a switch statement holding all the player stats.
check to see what option was chosen and apply 1 point to chosen player stat using the switch statement.
If adept, player looks through and chooses one of the options in a switch statement holding all the player stats.
check to see what option was chosen and apply 2 points to chosen player stat using the switch statement.
If master, player looks through and chooses one of the options in a switch statement holding all the player stats.
check to see what option was chosen and apply 3 points to chosen player stat using the switch statement.

Feign(only works with short weapons):

If novice is equipped and player uses, player attacks enemy with chance between 1-10 (above 5 comes back true)
of enemy not realizing it has taken damage for 1-4 damage.
If adept is equipped and player uses, same as novice with a chance between 1-10 (above 3 comes back true)
of enemy not realizing it has taken damage for 1-4 damage.
If master, same as adept with a chance between 1-10 (above 3 comes back true)
of enemy not realizing it has taken damage for 2-8 damage.

Iron Fist(Passive):

If novice is equipped, half of players strength is added to accuracy for melee attacks.
If adept, players strength is added to accuracy for melee attacks and melee damage is increased to 1-6 damage.
If master, same as adept with after every successfull attack on an enemy, 
player has 10 in game seconds to strike another hit for an additional 1-4 melee damage added to base melee damage.

Man At Arms:

If novice is equipped and player uses, increase current armours rating to next tier. 
(Light armor blocks 1-6, medium armor blocks 1-8 and heavy armor now blocks 1-10.)
If adept is equipped and player uses, same functionality as novice with a 1 - 10 chance 
to knock back the attacking enemy while the player is wearing armour.
If Master is equipped and player uses, same functionality as adept with added check 
to see if enemy has armor reducing effects and if they do negate them while ability is activated.

Natural Warrior:

If novice is equipped and player uses, while activated the players unnarmed attack damage is between 1-6.
If adept is equipped and the player uses, while activated the player has the same functionality as novice
with now having the player attack twice with unnarmed attacks.
If master is equipped and the player uses, while activated the player has the same functionality as adept with 
the change of instead of attack damage being 1-6 it is now 2-12.

Poisoner:

If novice is equipped and the player uses, 
while activated the weapon equipped becomes poisonous for 1 strike. 
Enemy hit will have a poison effect added for x ammount of time.
If adept is equipped and the player uses,
while activated the weapon equipped is now poisonous until combat is over.
If master is equipped and the player uses,
while activated the weapon equipped is now poisonous with 2x the poison damage on enemy hit.

Polearm Mastery:

If novice is equipped and player uses, on activation Weapons designated "Long" have 1 step added to damage
(spears and halberds 1-10 and 1-8 for staves)
If adept is equipped and player uses, same as novice with the player able to swing twice.
If master is equipped and player uses, same as adept with the effect that the enemies 
get stopped at a range of the weapon even if they do not get hit by it.

Recovery:

If novice is equipped and the player uses, on activation 
the player will gain a random integer ammount between 1-4 on toughness.
If adept, same as novice with now the integer is 1-6.
If master, same as adept or novice with now the integer is 1-8.

Shield Fighter(Passive):

If novice is equipped, one handed weapons equipped get +1 to attack damage and sheilds get +2 defence instead of regular +1.
If adept, same as novice with added sheild bash follow up attack after every succesfull attack landed 
dealing extra 1-4 damage.
If master, same as adept with damage of sheild bash being 1-6 instead of 1-4.

Steadfast(passive):

If novice is equipped, resistance increased to 1.
If adept, resistance increased to 2.
If master, resistance increased to 3 and checks if players resistance
is currently higher than 2, if yes attacking enemy takes 1-6 damage if attacking with effecting weapons.

Twin Attack(passive):

If novice is equipped, player can now equip a small weapon on the sheild hand and has +1 to defence, 
switching the sheild hand command to an attack aswell when equipped.
If adept, same as novice with now the player can have a one-handed in each hand.
If master, same as adept with now the player can equip a two-handed weapon in one hand, and a one-handed in the other. 

Two-Handed Force:

If novice is equipped, two handed weapons equipped have 1-12 damage instead of base damage of 1-10.
If adept, same as novice with a check to see if the player has swung and missed, if yes the boolean will set true. 
On next successfull attack the player will lnad an additional 1-6 damage.
If master, same as adept with two handed damage bypassing enemy armour checks.
